ECE 3574 Applied
Project: Concurrent Sorting
By Pranav Rao

The purpose of the project 4 was implement templated  quicksort algorithm a functor in the programming language C++. Essentially as a programmer the purpose was to grasp an understanding of  measuring concurrent algorithms.  Some of the specifications in this assignment included not being able to use built in libraries std::sort and quicksort(3). The code for this project was written mainly in the cqsort.hpp and cqbench.cpp. In addition to those file I also created my own tests in the unittests.cpp. 

Now we know more about the project specification, the following paragraphs will discuss more about the approach I had for this project and concurrent algorithm.  So for the project itself in my header file I had main class called CQsort. Within in this class I had 4 function. The four functions were qsort, partition, operator, CQsort, and las the operator function. This was different implementation then the other projects because I had written the code function in the class itself. The qsort function essentially  tries to take in the strings or integer values and divide and conquers. This functionality allows it reassemble in order and it uses the partition function. The idea behind the partition function is that it begins with the furthest variable on the left and then make its self over. It does this by tracking the index in terms of smaller or equal to. 

Within the class we also had the other two functions that were already provide the CQsort. This function purpose was for the private variable, thread integer.  The last function was the operator function in which it’s arguments was a vector from 0 to 4. We had to instantiate  this from only 0 to 4 because of the provide tests with vector size of 4. After completing cqsort.hpp I moved on to the cqbench. Over hear I had three functions the main function, bench mark function, and as well as the concurrent bench mark function. In the main function it was essentially for outputting.  I created a display which held the results of the timing tests. It had two types of times one for sequential and another for the concurrent sorted times. The columns were min, max and average time. 

The test bench functions were very logic. They both used the concept concurrent algorithms. Essentially the idea of the concurrent algorithm is when the program is running simultaneously but in fact it may be switching between both. Based on the logic I was able to implement the same thing for my code. I used a thread to because in our program the task was larger and we were using the C++ container. Threads were also important in my program because when the program is waiting on one part of the segment it can be working simultaneously allowing to be concurrent I was able to do this when I had my two function in the program. 

The parallel algorithm was use in different ways for the quick sort. For example I used in context of a recursive function. During each call of the of qsort function. The array is partition into two parts and each was solved recursively. This was done by organizing the smaller arrays that represent independent sub array that my code solved recursively. The upper half of the array/list in my code would send the low list in exchange for high, list and it compares it’s self again. After it divides and recurses  its self, the process has list of unsorted values that are completely unique and disjointed from the previous list.

In overall I was able to learn a lot from the experience of project 4 and get a better understanding  of quick sort and concurrent or parallel algorithms.  I was able to increase my knowledge in the concept of this efficient quick sorting algorithm. Below I have image of my code running and showing the time values. As you can see as the size of the lists increase the slower the sequential time but the opposite trends occurs with the concurrent. This clearly demonstrates the efficiency of the concurrent algorithm! 

Xcode command line(also in the included files)
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/VTECE/ece-3574-spring-2020-project-4-pranavr99/f7f4ed5b52318b3cfd44630f54ee5831599a357c/CommandLineScreenShot.png?token=ANDJFMRNKDCCIX7WFUS6OJS6XS3HU

